(upbeat music)
Next up, let's talk about what's called parameters
and arguments.
So, obviously, we've hard coded here,
the amount of the bill
and we've hard coded the amount of the tax rate
that's not a very--
We always talk in JavaScript when we say,
"Don't Repeat Yourself",
keep your code DRY.
And if you're making a function called calculateBill,
and you're assuming that the bill is $100,
and the tax rate is 13%.
That's not good unless we call the calculateBill for
bill that was 100.
You get the point, right?
That's too specific.
So what we want to do,
is we want to turn these things into variables.
So what we could do here
is...
maybe we'll go up here,
and we'll say, let bill is equal to 100
and let tax rate is equal to 0.13.
And then what we'll do in here
is we just replace that with bill
and we replace this with 1 plus taxRate.
And that will probably work.
But, you could probably tell by the sound of my voice,
that's not the best way to do it
and I'll tell you why.
So the reason we don't do this
is because this function right here, calculateBill
is relying on what is called global variables.
Now, we're going to go much more into scope
and global variables and scoping variables to a function
and these things called closures,
which is kind of a nifty way to use variables.
But for right now, what we need to know
is that this is a function that needs some data.
And when the function is not passed in data,
it sort of does this thing called
reaching outside of the function
in order to look up that data in a higher scope.
Again, we'll go into scope more in a future video.
So what we need to know right now is
it's not great to reach outside of a function
on order to get your data.
Now, if we wanted to do like,
let's get rid of this console log here.
Let's get rid of that.
And let's just make a myTotal2 and run it.
And then we'll console log myTotal and myTotal2.
And by the way, you can pass console log
as many arguments as you want.
So here I'm doing 1 comma 2,
and it'll just log as many pieces of data as you pass it.
Here we see, yeah you see both pieces of data.
So what if I wanted a new total?
Well, I could go up here and I could say,
bill is equal to 200.
And now we have an error
because we're trying to reassign a const,
we'll go up here and change this to a let,
and refresh it and now it works.
But you see, all of that work that we did,
where we're in between running these two pieces of code,
we had to change a variable that was set before
and then is yanked into this function outside.
This gets confusing really quickly
and this, it's how you build very brittle applications.
So what we want to do is,
instead of sort of reaching outside,
we want to pass into our functions,
the pieces of data that we need.
So let's do a little bit of cleanup here.
Let's get rid of these global variables right here.
We'll get rid of this line
and the myTotal and get rid of that.
Now what we want to do is these variables bill and taxRate,
we want to make them what are called params
for your functions.
So when you define your function,
and you say, okay, when somebody calls it,
I am going to expect somebody to pass me some data.
So, we put in params,
I like to think of them as placeholders.
So we'll say someone will pass us in a bill,
let's call it billAmount,
and somebody will pass us in a taxRate.
Then what we can do is inside of our function body,
we will have access to these variables
that are passed into us.
It's kind of confusing
because there's no creation of these variables,
but I'll explain that in just a second.
Then we can go in here and call this a billAmount
and we call this taxRate as well
and then we return our total.
Now when we go ahead and run it, we can then pass it.
The first thing it wants is the billAmount,
so we'll say it was $100.
And then the second thing it wants is a taxRate, 0.13.
Then if I console log myTotal,
you see that we get our value here,
but I'm able to make a myTotal2 really quickly.
And you see that it works without having to reassign.
Why?
Because when you define a function,
you can place what are called parameters.
These are called parameters.
And I always remember it
because 'p', parameter is a placeholder
and then when you run it, you pass the values
these are called arguments.
I actually have a nifty little thing here
let me open it up for you.
This will be in the README of the repo for this,
if you want to grab it yourself.
So I've got this little function definition,
so a cheat sheet that I put together here
and again, this will be in the README.
So right here, this is our function definition
and when we define the function name,
we put in what are called parameters,
again, parameters, or what are called placeholders,
we'll talk about this in the future.
This is called the default value
and then when you actually run your function,
or you call it or you invoke it,
those are three names to actually run your function,
you pass it the data that will take place
of these variables.
So meal will be 100, taxRate will be 0.13.
And these are called arguments.
So you'll hear people interchangeably use those two things.
But the way to remember it is parameters are placeholders,
meaning that when we define our function,
they're just a placeholder
because we don't know what that data will be
until they're actually run.
And then when you run your function,
the things that you pass in are called arguments
because they are actual value.
So 'p', parameter is a placeholder
or possible, some people have said as well,
and 'a', arguments are actual values.
Let's keep going with this.
Let's bring this back to myTotal,
it'll just have this one.
So in this case, I'm running my function
and as arguments, I'm passing straightaway numbers,
however the values that get passed into a function
can be in a variable as well.
This is a common hang up that people have
when learning how functions work
is how they sort of get renamed.
So let's take a look right here.
When we have a function called calculateBill,
when the data gets passed in,
there is going to be variables
that are available inside of this function,
they're going to be what's called scope to this function
and they are only available inside of this function
as to what they are passed in.
So if I were to go in here, and console.log,
the billAmount
and the taxRate,
you'll see that when it runs, it tells me it's 100 and 0.13.
Again, I can run that function all day long,
I can even run it in here.
And you see that we actually get the 200 and 0.2.
Why?
Because JavaScript will take whatever it is
that you write as an argument,
and then when you call the function,
it will sort of make a temporary available
and make them available to you
via the names that you put in your parameters.
Now, where it gets a little bit confusing to people,
is if somebody has a variable here,
and they say const, like wesTotal,
and we'll say, maybe my bill was $500
and const wesTaxRate,
maybe I have my own tax rate,
and it's 0.3%, 30% tax rate,
then what you can do is
if you have these values in a variable,
you can actually pass them into a function like this
wesTotal and we'll go in here and call it WesTaxRate.
Now the big confusion is,
well, if there are variables here,
and you pass them in here,
then when it's called inside of the function,
is this called billAmount, or is it called wesTotal?
Is this even going to work,
the fact that you just ran it with with a variable
that was not named the thing of the parameter?
Well I'll refresh it, it works just fine.
So we get 500 and 0.3.
So when you run a function in JavaScript,
what happens is JavaScript just takes in
whatever you've passed it,
and whether you've passed it that value
directly as a number,
or a string, or whether you've pass it in via reference,
meaning that you've just passed it reference to a variable,
which in turn will hold a value,
at the end of the day, we're still passing values,
whether you pass it directly,
or whether you pass it reference to a variable
that holds value,
JavaScript doesn't care how you're passing it in.
And as soon as the function runs,
it doesn't care about whether you pass in a variable
or whether you pass in a value,
because it just knows that you passed in a value.
And then what JavaScript does is it says,
"Okay, take whatever they passed in as the first argument,"
Whether that's a variable value of 500,
or whether I've passed it in as a straight ahead 100.
And then just make a variable
that's available inside the confines
of these curly brackets, that is called billAmount.
So when this function is running,
it does not care about anything else
that's going outside of this function.
It just knows that it's doing its job.
It's been passed in the two little pieces of data
that it needs, it does this little math,
and then it returns its value in there.
So when values get passed into a function,
they sort of get renamed into whatever it is
that you've defined your function parameters as.
Let's do another example to sort of get that down pat,
because honestly, when I'm teaching JavaScript,
this is probably by far the most common thing that happens.
So let's make another function here
called function sayHiTo.
And inside of that, we will simply just return, Hello.
And we'll pass in somebody's we'll call it firstName.
And then I will const greeting is equal to sayHiTo.
And we'll go ahead and run it
and obviously this is going to break.
But let's see why.
Console log that greeting.
Let's get rid of this running right here,
just want to keep it as clean as possible.
Here we go, ReferenceError: firstName is not defined.
Okay, good.
So what happens is this function,
first, what it will do is
it will look inside of its own function confines,
its own function scope, which is these curly brackets.
And it'll say, "Do I have a variable name, firstName,
"that's been passed in?"
And if there's not, what it will start to do is
it will go up to a higher level scope,
and look there.
Again, this is not a full explanation of scope,
but we're going to go into that much more.
So if there was a firstName variable here,
maybe we'll set that to wes, it would actually work.
Watch.
Hello wes.
Why?
Because it will try to reach outside for that data,
if nothing is found in the scope of that function.
So what we want to do is modify this, right?
What was this called?
This is called a function definition.
And then we'll set it to take in one parameter,
which is a let's call it firstName.
Then when we run it, we have to actually pass it
a string called Wes
and then we will have our greeting.
And what's nice about that is that we can make sayHiTo
and you can say Wes, you can say Kate,
you can say Snickers you get the point that right here.
As long as we pass in an argument in this case Wes,
it's going to have a variable inside of this function
that is referenced to whatever the person has passed in.
If we actually don't run it with anything,
look what happens.
Hello undefined
and the reason we have that is
because when a function runs,
it will create the variable for us
and then set it to whatever the person has passed in.
But if it creates a variable
and someone doesn't pass in anything,
then it'll just be set to undefined,
exactly how variables work.
Let's keep going with a few more examples here.
Let's talk about passing expressions.
So we'll go back to this calculateBill here
and we'll say const myTotal3 is equal to calculateBill.
And obviously, we can pass 100 and 0.15.
We've done that a million times
and we have our myTotal3 value.
What happens if we do this 20 plus 20 plus 30 plus 20.
Is that going to work?
And we'll take a look at myTotal3 and we see 90.15.
Oh, I think I goofed this up.
Part of what we're going to learn about is BEDMAS
which is brackets first,
and I here I am screwing it up.
So make sure you put the parentheses on that
because it needs to add the taxRate before it multiplies.
Otherwise it does it in a weird order.
But, and now take a look, there we go $103 and 50 cents.
That works, why?
Well, because the only thing
that a function can take in is a value
and whether you pass that value directly
as in a number,
whether you pass that value in as a variable,
which holds a value, that works.
And then you can also pass in expressions
and you're not actually passing in an expression.
In this case, we're just running an expression
and that will first run it will add that up to $90
and then it will pass the raw value of 90.
So absolutely, totally fine to do something like that.
It's actually pretty common because
even if you mix and match like const like
Kate had a bill that was $100
and I'll take Kate's bill when I'm running it,
we'll call it Kate,
and then I'll add my own bill which was $50, right?
So it's totally fine to mix and match those types of things,
it's still going to work,
regardless of what's going on.
Let's bring that back, remove this example, pretty simple.
Let's do another example here,
where we pass functions as arguments.
So we'll make a function called doctorize here.
And that will take in a name argument,
and we will return just doctor and we'll put the name there.
Then in here, we're going to make another function
called yell and that takes in a name as well.
And we are going to return,
we're just going to say "Hey,"
and then we're going to take the person's name
and run it at toUpperCase on the end.
Now we have two functions here.
You might be saying like, "Hey Wes,
"you've reused a variable."
Well, it's not okay to reuse variables
in the same scope multiple times,
it is okay to reuse parameters.
Why?
Because parameters when they're passed in,
when arguments are passed in,
they are only available inside of that function.
So, never will you run into a collision where the name
that you pass in here is going to overwrite this
because these are their own little confines,
they are their own little scoped functions.
And the name that gets passed into doctorize,
is only available inside of this function
and it'll never collide with the name
that is inside of here.
Now what's kind of cool about that is
let's just try go ahead and run it.
So doctorize, we'll call it wes.
And if we try that with yell,
we get Hey, Wes.
Now what's kind of cool is
that you can pass the output of doctoize
into yell so we can say yell,
doctorize,
And we could say, wes.
Hey, Dr. Wes.
So what just happened there is
let's bring that down over here.
What happens here is brackets go first
so anything that is inside of here, it says, "Okay, well,
"I need to first run this function."
And hopefully that returns a value, which it does,
it returns Hello in the...
It returns doctor in the name.
And then the value that's returned from doctorize
immediately gets passed into yell as an argument,
and then that will in turn return, "Hey, Dr. Wes."
So again, just another way that we can pass a value
to a function is the output of a function
is just a value at the end of the day
and you can actually run that directly.
Now let's talk about default values.
I'm going to comment out this yell right here
or just remove it entirely.
And let's go up to this taxRate right here.
You may be thinking like, that's a little bit silly
to have to pass it in, directly every single time
or even if we go to this yell function that we have here.
If I run yell and it says Wes, obviously it works.
But if I run, just yell directly,
without passing in an argument, it just says,
"Uncaught TypeError: cannot read property 'toUppercase'
"of undefined."
What's happening is that
this toUppercase function, it's technically a method,
we'll go into that in a bit.
It's trying to run it against something
that didn't get passed in.
And that's just the first of all,
you shouldn't have forgot it.
But if someone forgets to pass a value to the yell function,
our whole program's going to break.
So what we can do is
we can actually set what's called defaults.
When you define your function
inside of your function definition,
you can set a default by saying
name is equal to
and we'll call him, Silly Goose.
And now what will happen is if I run this again,
with yell, passing wes, it will still work.
But if you pass it without passing any value to it,
it will fall back to whatever the default value was
in your function definition.
So that's great.
So as you define your function, you can say,
if somebody does not pass this parameter here called name,
just default it to Silly Goose.
So we can go up here to our taxRate,
and we can always just set a default to 0.13.
And what that will allow us to do
is we can simply just call our calculateBill
with $100, and it'll say, "Okay, well, they didn't pass
a tax rate. So we're just going to default to 0.13."
And we get our actual value that's returned here.
So I often like to do that even if you go as far
as to just say name is equal to an empty string.
What that will do, is it will just make sure
that it falls back to an empty string
and it won't error out,
it just won't show you anything in that case.
So you'll see me doing that sometimes
when we hit a lot of our exercises.
I'll just set the default to be
a value of nothing of that type.
And that's just to sort of safeguard myself
from any cases where I'm not passing it in
or forget or something like that.
Let's take it one step further now
and let's modify this calculateBill
to also take a tip rate.
So let's go in here.
We'll take a billAmount, a taxRate
and then we'll also have a tipRate argument.
Let's default the tip to 0.15%, 15%.
By the way, the Europeans that are listening
where tip is not required in taxes
but built into the price, congratulations, you're lucky.
Not so easy here in Canada and in the U.S.
So let's get rid of this console log here.
And now what we do is we say the total is equal
to the billAmount plus
and we'll take this and we'll say the
billAmount times taxRate plus
and we'll say it's the billAmount times the tipRate.
Now you see my Prettier right there,
I just put in those parentheses because I was thinking
that these had to run first and then I gave it a save
and Prettier automatically fixed it
because those were unnecessary parentheses
that were put in there,
the BEDMAS rules do not need to happen there.
So when I save it, it just removes them.
That's why I like Prettier,
I can just put them in when I'm thinking about it,
and it says, "No, Wes you're dumb,
"you don't know what you're doing."
It will remove them for us.
So now if I run, calculateBill
and pass it $100,
we get 128 bucks because I have a 13% taxRate
and a 15% tipRate and they have defaulted.
Now one little sort of gotcha that happens here is,
what if you want to use the default tax rate
but not the default tip rate?
So we'll go here.
Let's go the very bottom,
const myBill4 is equal to calculateBill,
$100 and you want to use the default taxRate.
So just maybe skip it or something like that,
I don't know what goes in here
and then I want to pass a 20% tip rate,
this is going to break, right?
Watch.
myBill4.
Unexpected Token: comma,
okay it expected you to actually pass a value here.
So the only thing you can pass into a function
to make it kick back to its default value is undefined,
meaning that functions will only ever fall back
to their defaults, if nothing is passed
and remember, when a variable is not set to anything,
it is the value of undefined.
So you can't go ahead and pass zero here
and expected it to fall back to the default
or you can't say false or anything like that.
You have to pass undefined.
And what that will do is,
it will work explicitly passing undefined
and then that will make it fall back to 0.13.
And it works just like we had wanted.
It's very often,
it's very infrequently
that I actually ever have to do that.
But it's worth knowing
that that's how
the function will define
whether it should fall back to the default or not.
And it's nothing to do with truthy or falsy,
which we're going to learn in an upcoming video.
So that's parameters and arguments.
In next video, we're going to look at
a handful of other ways to define a function
rather than just the function keyword
and followed by the name of the function.